Add release notes for 0.221 (#12931)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/release/release-0.221.rst

=============
Release 0.221
=============

General Changes
---------------
* Add a variant of :func:`strpos` to return the position of the N-th instance of the substring.
* Add :func:`strrpos` that returns position of the N-th instance of substring from the back of a string.

> * Add aggregation function :func:`entropy`.

Reviewer: Should we explain the function `entropy` as well since we have done something similar for `strrpos`

Author: @rongrong can you give a brief description?

Reviewer 2: I think it's OK to just link to the documentation.

> * Add classification aggregation functions :func:`classification_miss_rate`, :func:`classification_precision`,

Reviewer: Same as above?

Author: @tdcmeehan can you give a brief description?

Reviewer 2: I think it would be hard to provide brief one-line explanation for these.  I think it's a better idea to just directly link to the documentation that was added for them.  See for example ST_Points from 0.217: https://prestodb.github.io/docs/current/release/release-0.217.html

  :func:`classification_recall`, :func:`classification_thresholds`.
* Add maximum standard error to :func:`approx_set`.

> * Fix an issue where outer joins without equality predicates would sometimes run on a single node

Reviewer: Lets follow the order of changes - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-changes . `Fix`s go first

  when ``join_distribution_type`` was set to ``AUTOMATIC``.

> * Add encryption for spill files (see :doc:`/admin/spill`).

Reviewer: Lets move this to keep all the `Add`s together

* Fix equality inference for ``VARCHAR`` columns.  This improves performance for queries that have
  both constant predicates and join predicates on a ``VARCHAR`` column.

> * Fix a null pointer exception during the stats collecting phase in query planning.

Reviewer: `collection phase` ?

> * Introduce ``max_tasks_per_stage`` session property and ``stage.max-tasks-per-stage`` config property.

Reviewer: To make this consistent with others, should we do something like `Add session properties blah and blah to do something` ?

  These properties limit the number of tasks per stage for grouped execution.

Web UI Changes
--------------

> * Add information about query warnings to the web UI.

Reviewer 3: 👍

Raptor Changes
--------------
* Revert the change introduced in 0.219 to rebalance bucket assignment after restarting
  the cluster. Automatic rebalancing can cause unexpected downtime when restarting the cluster
  to resolve emergent issues.

Hive Connector Changes
----------------------
* Decrease the amount of memory used by the coordinator when scheduling Hive splits.
* Improve performance of writing large ORC files.

SPI Changes
-----------

> * Introduce ``commitPartition`` in ```Metadata`` and ``ConnectorMetadata``.

Reviewer 4: Do we wanna elaborate a bit on `commitPartition` maybe? @shixuan-fan

Reviewer 5: nit: there are three backquotes before `Metadata`. 

While trying to elaborate this, I think I forgot to add the SPI change related to `PageSinkProperties`. @rschlussel 

How about:
```
* Add ``PageSinkProperties`` for ``createPageSink`` in ``PageSinkProvider`` and ``ConnectorPageSinkProvider``. It contains ``partitionCommitRequired``, which is default to false for the existing connectors, and is further explained in ``commitPartition``. 
* Introduce ``commitPartition`` in ``Metadata`` and ``ConnectorMetadata``. This SPI is coupled with ``PageSinkProperties#partitionCommitRequired``, and is used by the engine to commit a partition of data to the target connector. The connector that implements this SPI should ensure that if ``PageSinkProperties#isPartitionCommitRequired`` is true in ``ConnectorPageSinkProvider#createPageSink``, the written data is not published until ``ConnectorMetadata#commitPartition`` is called. Also, it is expected for the connector to add ``SUPPORTS_PARTITION_COMMIT`` in ``Connector#getCapabilities``. 
```

=============
Release 0.221
=============

General Changes
---------------

> * Fix a null pointer exception during the stats collection phase in query planning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improve reliability during the stats collection phase in query planning.
```

Author: I like the original better.  
1. our release note guidelines say fixes should begin with the word "fix" (i think we should only stick to that when it's reasonable, but it seems reasonable here).
2. "reliability" is so vague.  Mentioning the exception makes it easier to know whether this release fixed the issue you were seeing.

Reviewer 2: That's fair, I'm OK with anything that doesn't reference Java exceptions.  How about

`Fix error during stats collection ...`

> * Fix an issue where outer joins without equality predicates would sometimes run on a single node

Reviewer 2: I think this is too low level for the release notes, but I'm not sure how to phrase it better.

Author: I could be less specific? e.g. 
Fix a performance regression for some outer joins without equality predicates when ``join_distribution_type`` is set to ``AUTOMATIC``.

  when ``join_distribution_type`` was set to ``AUTOMATIC``.

> * Fix equality inference for ``VARCHAR`` columns.  This improves performance for queries that have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improve performance for queries with constant VARCHAR predicates in `WHERE` or `JOIN` clause
```

Author: That's not quite right, but I'm not sure of a good way to say it.  the improvement is for queries like
`SELECT * FROM t1 JOIN t2 ON t1.my_varchar = t2.my_varchar WHERE t1.my_varchar = 'hello'`.  It lets 'hello' get pushed down to the t2 table also.

Author: maybe 
```
* Improve performance for queries with constant ``VARCHAR`` predicates on join columns
```

Reviewer 2: I like it!

  both constant predicates and join predicates on a ``VARCHAR`` column.
* Add a variant of :func:`strpos` to return the position of the N-th instance of the substring.
* Add :func:`strrpos` that returns the position of the N-th instance of a substring from the back of a string.
* Add aggregation function :func:`entropy`.
* Add classification aggregation functions :func:`classification_miss_rate`, :func:`classification_precision`,
  :func:`classification_recall`, :func:`classification_thresholds`.

> * Add maximum standard error to :func:`approx_set`.

Reviewer 2: My bad:  

```suggestion
* Add overload of :func:`approx_set` which takes in the maximum standard error.
```

> * Add ``max_tasks_per_stage`` session property and ``stage.max-tasks-per-stage`` config property to

Reviewer 2: Would we expect an administrator of Presto to ever set this?

Author: @wenleix can you answer Tim's question?  And if the answer is yes, do we have guidance anywhere about how/why to set this configuration?

Reviewer 6: @tdcmeehan : Yes. This can potentially help resource management (e.g. don't have to always use all the nodes for large batch queries, don't use all nodes for grouped execution, etc).

@rschlussel : We can just explain the purpose of this session property, e.g. 
```
Setting this session property allows large batch queries not always use all the nodes in the cluster for table scan, and use a fixed number of nodes to have more predictable memory usage for grouped execution, albeit the physical cluster size. 
```

Author: ok, i updated the release note with more info based on @wenleix's description.  @tdcmeehan @wenleix, what do you think of the new language?

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me!

  limit the number of tasks per stage for grouped execution.
* Add encryption for spill files (see :doc:`/admin/spill`).

Web UI Changes
--------------
* Add information about query warnings to the web UI.

Raptor Changes
--------------
* Revert the change introduced in 0.219 to rebalance bucket assignment after restarting
  the cluster. Automatic rebalancing can cause unexpected downtime when restarting the cluster
  to resolve emergent issues.

Hive Connector Changes
----------------------

> * Decrease the amount of memory used by the coordinator when scheduling Hive splits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improve coordinator memory utilization for Hive splits.
```

* Improve performance of writing large ORC files.

SPI Changes
-----------
* Add ``PageSinkProperties`` for ``createPageSink`` in ``PageSinkProvider`` and
  ``ConnectorPageSinkProvider``. It contains a boolean ``partitionCommitRequired``, which is
  false by default.  See the note below about ``commitPartition`` for more information.

> * Add ``commitPartition`` to ``Metadata`` and ``ConnectorMetadata``. This SPI is coupled with

Reviewer 2: IMO, in the future it would be great to add some of these details to the SPI overview in the documentation, and link to it.  https://prestodb.github.io/docs/current/develop/spi-overview.html
